= newt rubygem

* http://github.com/theforeman/ruby-newt

== DESCRIPTION

Ruby bindings for the newt library

Code is originally from Noritsugu Nakamura and is available at:
http://www2s.biglobe.ne.jp/~Nori/ruby/dist/ruby-newt-20020105.tar.gz

It was maintained by Eric Sperano and moved to theforeman github page in 2015.

See http://github.com/theforeman/ruby-newt/tree/master/examples for usage examples.

== INSTALL

=== From rubygems.org

  $ gem install newt

=== From source

  $ gem install rake rake-compiler
  $ git clone git://github.com/theforeman/ruby-newt
  $ cd ruby-newt
  $ gem build newt.gemspec
  $ sudo gem install newt-*.gem

=== Development

  $ bundle install
  $ bundle exec rake compile
  $ bundle exec rake test

== REQUIREMENTS

The Newt library and headers.

=== Fedora

  $ dnf install ruby-devel newt-devel

=== Ubuntu

  $ sudo apt-get install libnewt-dev

=== Mac OS X

  $ sudo port install libnewt

Then, define these environment variables:

  $ export LIBRARY_PATH="/opt/local/lib/"
  $ export C_INCLUDE_PATH="/opt/local/include/"

For some reason, it does not always find the header so symlink it:

  $ sudo ln -s /opt/local/include/newt.h  /usr/include/

== Migrating from 0.9 to 1.0

The following changes break compatibility with version 0.9 and existing
programs using the ruby-newt library may need to be changed.

* The following method names have been renamed to create a more consistent
  interface.
  * +takesFocus+ has been renamed to +takes_focus+
  * +setCurrentByKey+ has been renamed to +set_current_by_key+
  * +setData+ has been renamed to +set_data+
  * +clearSelection+ has been renamed to +clear_selection+
* The +get+/+set+ methods have been removed from the +Radiobutton+
  component.
* The +get_current+ method for +Listbox+ has been generalized and the
  +get_current_as_number+ and +get_current_as_string+ methods have been
  removed.
* Garbage collection of components and forms has been implemented. This will
  break applications that reuse components on multiple forms.
* The publicly global +CALLBACK_HASH+ has been removed. Applications that
  modify this hash directly will break.
* The various _add_callback_ methods no longer return the previously set
  callback when called with no parameters.
* Use +get_current+ instead of +get+ for radiobuttons.
* Use +set_current+ instead of +set+ for radiobuttons.

== AUTHORS

* Noritsugu Nakamura
* Eric Sperano
* Kosuke Asami
* Lukas Zapletal
* Robert Gill

== LICENSE

(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
